Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: WHILE PRESIDENT OBAMA
WAS ON THE ROAD TOUTING HIS
ECONOMIC AGENDA, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS WERE PLOTTING THEIR
WAY FORWARD ON IMMIGRATION,
DRAWING THE BATTLE LINES TODAY
FOR A BUSY 2014 IN POLITICS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE 20 "AL JAZEERA"
JOURNALISTS JAILED IN EGYPT AMID
THE GOVERNMENT'S SUSTAINED
CRACKDOWN ON THOSE SEEN AS
ALLIES TO THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
>> Ifill: AND WE EXAMINE A
MYSTERIOUS EPIDEMIC DEVASTATING
THE STARFISH POPULATION UP AND
DOWN THE WEST COAST.
>> THIS IS THE CHANGE OF MY
LIFETIME.
WE'VE HAD NOW OCCASIONAL DIEOFFS
HERE AND THERE, BUT IT'S NOT
LIKE THIS.
IT'S NOT A MASS MORTALITY OF
THEM.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA CHALLENGED
EACH OTHER TODAY TO ENGAGE ON
MAJOR ISSUES.
REPUBLICAN LEADERS INSISTED
THEY'VE PASSED VITAL LEGISLATION
THAT STALLED IN THE SENATE.
THE PRESIDENT SAID AMERICANS
CAN'T WAIT ANY LONGER FOR ACTION
ON JOBS AND WAGES.
WE'LL GET A FULL REPORT AND
EXPLORE THE POLITICAL REALITIES
IN WASHINGTON, RIGHT AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
CONSUMERS SPENT MORE AT THE END
OF 2013 THAN THEY HAVE IN THREE
YEARS.
THAT, IN TURN, FUELED SOLID
GROWTH IN THE FOURTH QUARTER AT
AN ANNUAL RATE OF 3.2%.
THE NUMBERS IN A NEW COMMERCE
DEPARTMENT REPORT SUGGESTED THE
ECONOMY HAS MOMENTUM GOING INTO
2014.
THAT REPORT HELPED WALL STREET
BOUNCE BACK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 110 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 15,848.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 71
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,123.
THE CITY OF ATLANTA WAS FINDING
ITS WAY BACK TO NORMAL TODAY.
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC CAME TO LIFE
WITH THE CLEANUP FROM A
SURPRISINGLY FIERCE WINTER
STORM.
SCORES OF VEHICLES STILL
LITTERED ROADSIDES TWO DAYS
AFTER AN ICY GRIDLOCK PARALYZED
THE AREA.
POLICE AND THE NATIONAL GUARD
HELPED THOUSANDS OF COMMUTERS
FIND THE CARS THEY ABANDONED.
MEANWHILE, GEORGIA GOVERNOR
NATHAN DEAL SAID IT'S CLEAR THAT
STORM PREPARATIONS FAILED AND HE
PROMISED A FULL REVIEW.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO LOOK FOR A
SCAPEGOAT.
I'M THE GOVERNOR.
THE BUCK STOPS WITH ME.
I ACCEPT THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
IT, BUT I ALSO ACCEPT THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF BEING ABLE TO
MAKE CORRECTIVE ACTIONS AS THEY
COME IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: SCHOOLS AND
GOVERNMENT OFFICES REMAINED
CLOSED TODAY IN ATLANTA AND
OTHER PARTS OF THE SOUTH.
ROUGHLY 1,600 STUDENTS IN
ALABAMA FINALLY GOT HOME AFTER
SPENDING TWO NIGHTS STRANDED IN
THEIR SCHOOLS.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS WILL SEEK
THE DEATH PENALTY FOR THE
ALLEGED BOSTON MARATHON BOMBER
DZHOKHAR TSARNAEV.
THE EXPLOSIONS KILLED THREE AND
WOUNDED MORE THAN 260 OTHERS.
IN A COURT FILING TODAY,
PROSECUTORS SAID TSARNAEV
ATTACKED INNOCENT MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN AND SHOWED A "LACK OF
REMORSE".
THE NEW MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY
BILL DE BLASIO MOVED TODAY TO
END A 14-YEAR COURT BATTLE OVER
"STOP AND FRISK" TACTICS BY
POLICE.
THE CITY WILL NO LONGER APPEAL A
COURT RULING THAT FOUND THE
STOPS VIOLATE THE CIVIL RIGHTS
OF BLACK AND HISPANIC MEN.
THEY MAKE UP THE MAJORITY OF
THOSE TARGETED.
DE BLASIO SAID HE WANTS REFORMS
TO END ANY DISCRIMINATION.
THE NUMBER OF AIR FORCE OFFICERS
LINKED TO A CHEATING SCANDAL IN
THE NUCLEAR MISSILE CORPS HAS
MORE THAN DOUBLED.
AIR FORCE SECRETARY DEBORAH LEE
JAMES ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT 92
OFFICERS ARE IMPLICATED OUT OF
500.
JAMES SPOKE AT THE PENTAGON
AFTER TOURING NUCLEAR BASES
NATIONWIDE.
>> I BELIEVE NOW THAT WE DO HAVE
SYSTEMIC PROBLEM WITHIN THE
FORCE.
I HEARD REPEATEDLY FROM
TEAMMATES THAT THE NEED FOR
PERFECTION HAS CREATED A CLIMATE
OF UNDUE STRESS AND FEAR-- FEAR
ABOUT THE FUTURE, FEAR ABOUT
PROMOTION, FEAR ABOUT WHAT WILL
HAPPEN TO THEM IN THEIR CAREERS.
>> Woodruff: THE CHEATING
SCANDAL INVOLVED OFFICERS AT
MALMSTROM AIR FORCE BASE IN
MONTANA.
IN IRAQ, AN ASSAULT ON THE
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
BUILDING IN BAGHDAD KILLED AS
MANY AS TWO DOZEN PEOPLE.
SIX GUNMEN STORMED THE BUILDING
AND TOOK HOSTAGES BEFORE SOME OF
THEM DETONATED SUICIDE VESTS.
IRAQI SECURITY FORCES EVENTUALLY
REGAINED CONTROL.
AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED
IN THE ATTACK.
NEGOTIATORS AT THE SYRIAN PEACE
TALKS AGREED ON ONE THING TODAY:
THEY JOINED IN A MINUTE OF
SILENCE FOR THE 130,000 PEOPLE
KILLED IN THE CIVIL WAR.
OTHERWISE, THE ASSAD REGIME AND
THE WESTERN-BACKED OPPOSITION
MADE NO PROGRESS ON CREATING A
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT.
ONLY ONE DAY OF MEETINGS REMAINS
BEFORE THE TALKS TAKE A WEEK-
LONG BREAK.
AUTHORITIES IN RUSSIA NOW SAY
TWO SUICIDE BOMBERS WHO KILLED
34 PEOPLE IN DECEMBER WERE PART
OF A MILITANT GROUP IN DAGESTAN.
THE ATTACKS IN VOLGOGRAD RAISED
NEW FEARS ABOUT SECURITY AT THE
WINTER OLYMPICS IN SOCHI 400
MILES AWAY.
MEANWHILE, ATHLETES BEGAN
ARRIVING IN SOCHI TODAY, PASSING
THROUGH HEAVY SECURITY TO GET
CREDENTIALS.
AMERICAN SPEEDSKATER KELLY
GUNTHER WAS AMONG THEM.
>> I AM PRETTY EXCITED, IT'S
PRETTY COOL TO BE HERE, IT IS MY
FIRST OLYMPICS.
SO, AM VERY EXCITED WITH
EVERYTHING THAT'S GOING ON.
I'M KIND OF OVERWHELMED.
YOU KNOW, I HAVEN'T REALLY
THOUGHT ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE
THAT'S GOING ON, I KNOW WE WILL
BE IN GOOD HANDS AND THIS
SECURITY, I KNOW, IT'S PRETTY
TIGHT.
>> Woodruff: THE OPENING
CEREMONY FOR THE WINTER TAKES
PLACE ON FEBRUARY SEVENTH.
THE POLITICAL CRISIS IN UKRAINE
TOOK A SUDDEN TURN TODAY WHEN
PRESIDENT VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH WENT
ON SICK LEAVE.
THIS CAME IN THE FACE OF WEEKS
OF ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTS,
DEMANDING HIS RESIGNATION.
HIS WEBSITE SAID YANUKOVYCH HAS
AN ACUTE RESPIRATORY AILMENT AND
A HIGH FEVER.
IT DID NOT SAY WHEN HE'LL
RETURN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS MADE HIS
CHOICE TO RUN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY AMID A GLOBAL
DEBATE OVER U.S. SURVEILLANCE.
HE'S NOMINATING VICE ADMIRAL
MIKE ROGERS, WHO'S NOW IN CHARGE
OF THE NAVY'S CYBER COMMAND.
THE CURRENT HEAD OF THE N.S.A,
ARMY GENERAL KEITH ALEXANDER,
PLANS TO RETIRE IN MARCH.
ONE OF THE LEADING LIBERALS IN
CONGRESS, CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT
HENRY WAXMAN IS RETIRING AFTER
40 YEARS.
WAXMAN IS 74 YEARS OLD.
HE SAID IN A STATEMENT TODAY
THAT HE WANTS TO SAMPLE LIFE
OUTSIDE CONGRESS.
WAXMAN HELPED CRAFT PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S LANDMARK HEALTH CARE LAW
AND HAS CHAMPIONED ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SAFETY LEGISLATION.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE POLITICAL REALITIES FACING
THE WHITE HOUSE AND CONGRESS,
THE GERMAN GOVERNMENT'S POINT
MAN WITH WASHINGTON,
THE EPIDEMIC DEVASTATING
STARFISH ON THE WEST COAST,
THE DETENTION OF AL JAZEERA
JOURNALISTS IN EGYPT, PLUS NEW
WATER WORRIES AFTER THE WEST
VIRGINIA CHEMICAL SPILL.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA HIT
THE ROAD FOR DAY TWO OF HIS
ANNUAL POST-STATE OF THE UNION
PUSH AS HOUSE REPUBLICANS
TRAVELED TO THEIR ANNUAL RETREAT
IN MARYLAND.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
REPORTS ON THE DAY'S EVENTS.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE SHOW
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WE'RE NOT
JUST THE OPPOSITION PARTY, WE'RE
ACTUALLY THE ALTERNATIVE PARTY.
>> Holman: FROM THEIR ANNUAL
RETREAT ON MARYLAND'S EASTERNORN
BOEHNER AND HIS FELLOW
REPUBLICANS AIMED TO DISPEL THE
NOTION THAT THEY'RE TO BLAME FOR
LACK OF ACTION ON MAJOR ISSUES.
MAJORITY LEADER ERIC CANTOR
URGED PRESIDENT OBAMA TO SEEK
THEM OUT INSTEAD OF JUST ISSUING
EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
>> THE PRESIDENT DID SAY THE
OTHER NIGHT, HE SAID, "LOOK.
IN AMERICA, IT'S ALWAYS BEEN IF
YOU WORK HARD AND YOU'RE
RESPONSIBLE, YOU GET AHEAD."
WELL, WE AGREE.
WE REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THAT FOR YEARS AND YEARS.
AND SO WE WANT THE PRESIDENT TO
WORK WITH US TO TRY TO SOLVE
THAT.
>> Holman: IN HIS STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS, THE PRESIDENT
PAINTED THE HOUSE G.O.P AS THE
ROADBLOCK ON IMMIGRATION, FOR
INSTANCE.
>> IT IS TIME TO HEED THE CALL
OF BUSINESS LEADERS, LABOR
LEADERS, FAITH LEADERS AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND FIX OUR BROKEN
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS IN THE
SENATE HAVE ACTED.
I KNOW THAT MEMBERS OF BOTH
PARTIES IN THE HOUSE WANT TO DO
THE SAME.
>> Holman: THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS
CHARGED TODAY IT'S SENATE
DEMOCRATS WHO'VE BEEN STALLING
KEY BILLS.
AS FOR IMMIGRATION, SPEAKER
BOEHNER SIGNALED A READINESS TO
ACT, BUT HE GAVE NO DETAILS.
>> THIS PROBLEM'S BEEN AROUND
FOR AT LEAST THE LAST 15 YEARS.
IT'S BEEN TURNED INTO A
POLITICAL FOOTBALL.
I THINK IT'S UNFAIR.
AND SO I THINK IT'S TIME TO DEAL
WITH IT.
BUT HOW WE DEAL WITH IT IS GOING
TO BE CRITICALLY IMPORTANT.
YOU KNOW IT'S ONE THING TO PASS
A LAW, IT'S ANOTHER THING TO
HAVE THE CONFIDENCE OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE BEHIND THAT LAW
AS YOU'RE PASSING IT.
>> Reporter: BOEHNER DID SEND A
SET OF PRINCIPLES TO THE PARTY
RANK-AND-FILE.
IT CALLS FOR PROVIDING A CHANCE
OF CITIZENSHIP FOR CHILDREN
BROUGHT TO U.S. ILLEGALLY.
BUT MR. OBAMA KEPT THE PRESSURE
ON IN A SPEECH AT JOB TRAINING
IN A GENERAL ELECTRIC PLANT IN
WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN.
>> THE QUESTION FOR FOLKS IN
WASHINGTON IS WHETHER THEY'RE
GOING TO HELP OR THEY HINDER
THAT PROGRESS.
WHETHER THEY'RE GOING TO WASTE
TIME CREATING NEW CRISES THAT
SLOW THINGS DOWN OR THEY'RE
GOING TO SPEND TIME CREATING NEW
JOBS AND OPPORTUNITIES.
>> Holman: FROM THERE, THE
PRESIDENT TRAVELED TO
A HIGH SCHOOL IN NASHVILLE,
TENNESSEE.
A STUDENT THERE WAS KILLED
TUESDAY NIGHT, IN AN OFF-CAMPUS
SHOOTING.
>> Ifill: HOW ARE THE AGENDAS OF
THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESSIONAL
REPUBLICANS SHAPED BY THE
POLITICAL REALITIES THEY NOW
FACE?
WE EXPLORE THAT WITH MICHAEL
GERSON, "WASHINGTON POST"
COLUMNIST AND FORMER CHIEF
SPEECHWRITER FOR PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH, NEERA TANDEN,
PRESIDENT OF THE LEFT-LEANING
CENTER FOR AMERICAN PROGRESS.
SHE SERVED IN BOTH THE OBAMA AND
CLINTON ADMINISTRATIONS.
AND ANDREW RUDALEVIGE, PROFESSOR
OF GOVERNMENT AT BOWDOIN
COLLEGE, AND AUTHOR OF THE BOOK
"THE NEW IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY:
RENEWING PRESIDENTIAL POWER
AFTER WATERGATE."
WHAT DID THE SPEECH, NEERA
TANDEN, TELL YOU ABOUT WHERE THE
PRESIDENT AND THE PRESIDENCY
STANDS RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PRESIDENT
WAS REALLY TRYING TO FOE CAN CUS
ON THE COUNTRY FROM THE LEAD
WHERE HE COULD.
I THINK NOT THAT MUCH IS GOING
TO GET THROUGH CONGRESS.
I'M OPTIMISTIC ABOUT IMMIGRATION
REFORM, BUT PAST IMMIGRATION
REFORM IT SEEMS LIKE HE
RECOGNIZE THERE IS'S A LIMIT TO
WHAT HE CAN DO IN WASHINGTON AND
HE IS NOT JUST LIMITED BY
WASHINGTON, HE CAN DO THINGS IN
THE COUNTRY AS WELL.
FILL FILL MICHAEL, YOU'VE HAD A
HAND IN CRAFTING THESE
HYDRA-HEADED STATE OF THE UNION
SPEECHES WITH SO MANY PEOPLE
CONTRIBUTING TO IT.
WHAT DID THAT SPEECH TELL YOU
AND THE REPUBLICAN AE ACTION TO
IT TELL YOU ABOUT WHERE THINGS
STAND NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S FIRST
WORTH SAYING THAT WHEREVER
THERE'S A TRIBUTE TO A WOUNDED
WARRIOR IT'S A GREAT MOMENT.
THAT WAS A DEEPLY MEMORABLE
MOMENT IN THAT SPEECH AND I
THINK IT WAS GREAT THAT THE
PRESIDENT DID THAT.
ALL THAT SAID, I DEFER A LITTLE
BIT.
I THINK A LOT OF THE POLICY IN
THE SPEECH WAS MODEST, A LOT OF
IT RECYCLED, PRETTY GENERIC FROM
THE DEMOCRATIC PERSPECTIVE, NOT
A LOT OF INNOVATION IN THE
SPEECH.
AND THAT THAT'S PROBABLY
APPROPRIATE FOR A SECOND TERM,
EXPECTATIONS ARE LOWERED, BUT
IT'S A REAL CONTRAST WITH THIS
PRESIDENT EVEN LAST YEAR COMING
OUT OF HIS REELECTION WHERE HE
PUSHED THE CONGRESS HARD ON GUN
CONTROL AND ENVIRONMENT AND SOME
OTHER ISSUES.
SO I THINK SEEING A BIG
CHANGE IN THE EXPECTATION, BUT
HE DID GIVE HIS OWN PARTY A
THEME: GIVE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
A RAISE.
THAT'S A REAL IMPORTANT GOAL FOR
HIM AND IF HE LOSES THE SENATE
IT'S IMPORTANT TO HIS
PRESIDENCY.
FILL FILL I'M GOING TO ASK YOU
BOTH.
DOES PARTISANSHIP DEMAND MODESTY
AT THIS POINT WHERE WASHINGTON
IS NOW?
>> I THINK THE CHALLENGE IS YOU
CAN'T JUDGE THE PRESIDENT BY THE
FACT THAT CONGRESS ISN'T PASSING
MANY PIECES.
TO SAY HE'S REPEATING THING HE
IS DID BEFORE, WELL, THERE'S A
LOT OF DISNUNGS CONGRESS ITSELF.
THE HELP TIFTS ISN'T PASSING HIS
LEGISLATION.
SO I THINK THE PRESIDENT -- I
GIVE THE PRESIDENT CREDIT FOR
TRYING WHEN HE CAN TO MAKE
POSITIVE CHANGE.
AND I THINK HE IS LIMITED IN
THAT BECAUSE HE DOESN'T HAVE A
SO I THINK CHALLENGE TO JUDGE
HIM HARSHLY IS UNFAIR.
>> Ifill: MICHAEL?
>> I DID PARTICIPATE IN THIS
PROCESS AND SOMETIMES YOU TEND
TO COME UP WITH CREATIVE POLICY
THAT PUTS THE OTHER SIDE ON THE
DEFENSIVE.
AND MAYBE GET SOME THINGS DONE.
AND THE PRESIDENT DID THAT IN A
COUPLE OF SMALL AREAS IN MY
VIEW: A AN EXPENSION OF
E.I.T.C., WHICH THE REPUBLICANS
COULD DO.
THE EXPANSION OF A NEW SAVINGS
MECHANISM FOR LOW INCOME PEOPLE.
BUT THAT WAS PRETTY RARE IN THIS
SPEECH.
I DON'T THINK THERE WAS MUCH IN
THAT CATEGORY.
AND I DO HOLD THE PRESIDENT
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THAT.
>> Ifill: ANDREW RUDALEVIGE, AS
THE NATION SHOWS SKEPTICISM AND
NOT A LOT OF OPTIMISM ABOUT
WASHINGTON AND THE ABILITY TO
GET PAST THESE THINGS, DO THESE
MOMENTS COUNT?
>> WELL, THEY COUNT IN THAT THEY
TRY TO SET THE AGENDA FOR THE
COMING YEAR.
THE PRESIDENT HERE OBVIOUSLY HAS
THE BIGGEST AUDIENCE THAT HE'LL
HAVE ALL YEAR.
IT'S AN AUDIENCE THAT'S
DIMINISHED OVER TIME AS
BROADCASTING AND VIEWING HABITS
HAVE FRAGMENTED.
BUT NONETHELESS IT'S HIS BEST
OPPORTUNITY TO SET THE TONE FOR
THE YEAR WITH THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC AND TO TRY TO GET MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS TO BE PRESSURED IN A
WAY TOWARDS SUPPORTING HIS
AGENDA.
AS WAS MENTIONED, IN A WAY THAT
WOUND UP CUTTING WATER A LITTLE
BIT POLITICALLY, PERHAPS.
A LOT OF PROPOSALS ON THE TABLE.
NOT AS MANY EXECUTIVE ACTIONS
PROPOSED AS WE'D BEEN LED TO
BELIEVE BUT THEY COULD BE
IMPORTANT IN ALLOWING THE
PRESIDENT TO SET THE AGENDA
TOWARDS THE MIDTERMS.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU THIS:
TODAY WE HEARD JOHN BOEHNER, THE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE, TELL
FELLOW REPUBLICANS "WE WANT TO
BE THE ALTERNATIVE, NOT THE
OPPOSITION."
AND WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT IN
THE SPEECH AS YOU POINT OUT NOT
THROW THE GAUNTLET DOWN BUT TALK
ABOUT LADDERS OF OPPORTUNITY,
LANGUAGE LIKE THAT.
IS THAT WHAT THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
DEMANDS: THIS KIND OF OPTIMISTIC
TALK?
>> CERTAINLY IT WAS A MORE
COOPERATIVE CONCILIATORY SPEECH
THAN WE'VE BEEN LED TO BELIEVE.
THE PRESIDENT HAS A FEW TIMES
DURING HIS ADMINISTRATION
SIGNALED A TURN A MORE
ADMINISTRATIVE STRATEGY.
THE "WE CAN'T WAIT" STRATEGY
THAT WAS UNVEILED OCTOBER, 2011,
TRIED TO LAY DOWN A RECORD OF
ACTIVITY TOWARDS THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION IN 2012
AND HERE WE'RE SEEING A RETURN
TO THAT GIVEN THE STALEMATE ON
CAPITOL HILL THE PRESIDENT WANTS
TO SORT OF HIGHLIGHT THE FACT
THAT ANY INACTIVITY IS NOT HIS
FAULT.
IF ONLY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WOULD COME TO HIM HE WOULD BE
ABLE TO ACT AND, OF COURSE,
MEMBERS OF THE REPUBLICAN
MAJORITY IN THE HOUSE ARE SAYING
THE SAME THING.
IF ONLY THE PRESIDENT WOULD COME
HALFWAY TOWARDS THEM WE COULD
GET SOMETHING DONE.
THE END RESULT BEING THAT VERY
LITTLE IS LIKELY TO GET DONE.
>> Ifill: MICHAEL, LET ME ASK
YOU THIS ABOUT THE ALTERNATIVE
VERSUS THE OPPOSITION LANGUAGE
THAT JOHN BOEHNER USED AND MARCO
RUBIO USED IT YESTERDAY.
IS THAT SUSTAINABLE WHETHER THE
TEA PARTY IS REALLY THE PARTY OF
OPPOSITION?
>> I THINK THERE'S A REAL
DISTINCTION HERE BETWEEN THE
PARTY OF CONGRESS.
IN THE HOUSE DISTRICTS OFF
DIFFERENT POLITICAL DYNAMIC, AS
MANY OF THESE HOUSE MEMBERS DO.
BUT IF YOU'RE TRYING TO LEAD A
NATIONAL PARTY TO HAVE A MESSAGE
ON IMMIGRATION OR OTHER THINGS.
SO THERE'S A HUGE CLEAVAGE HERE.
THE PARTY HAS TO APPEAL TO
MINORITIES, WOMEN, YOUNGER
VOTERS AND THEY WANT TO CRAFT A
MESSAGE TO DO THAT.
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE
DIFFERENT POLITICAL DYNAMIC.
SO SOME OF THIS ONLY GETS
RESOLVED IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
PRIMARIES WHERE YOU HAVE THE
EMERGENCE OF A CANDIDATE THAT
CAN GIVE SHAPE TOWARD
REPOSITIONING OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
>> Ifill: AND DOES THE
PRESIDENT'S LANGUAGE COUNT IN
THIS, TOO, WHEN HE TALKS ABOUT
LADDERS OF OPPORTUNITY AND HE
STEPS OUT OF THE WAY TO ALLOW
THE REPUBLICANS TO LEAD THE WAY
ON IMMIGRATION?
WHY DOES THAT MAKE YOU
OPTIMISTIC.
>>
>> I THOUGHT HE WAS -- I THOUGHT
HE REALLY TALKED ABOUT
IMMIGRATION IN WAYS THAT WOULD
ATTRACT THE PRESIDENT'S SUPPORT.
HE TALKED ABOUT IN THE TERMS OF
ECONOMIC GROWTH AND
COMPETITIVENESS SO HE DIDN'T
THROW DOWN THE GAUNTLET ON ANY
PARTICULAR ISSUE AND THINK THE
REAL ISSUE THIS YEAR --
>> Ifill: EXCEPT GIVING AMERICA
A RAISE.
>> BUT ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
ITSELF HE DIDN'T SAY "THERE HAS
TO BE A PATH TO CITIZENSHIP OR I
WON'T SIGN IT."
HE'S TRYING TO MOVE THAT PROCESS
ALONG WITHOUT GETTING IN THE
WAY.
I THINK THE REAL ISSUE WILL BE
FOR SPEAKER BANER IN THE NEXT
FEW MONTHS WHETHER HE WANTS TO
PASS LEGISLATION, TO BE LOOKING
LIKE THERE'S A REPUBLICAN CAUCUS
THAT IS SOLVING THE COUNTRY'S
PROBLEMS, READY TO ACT OR SIMPLY
OBSTRUCT.
AND I THINK THIS LANGUAGE THAT
WE'RE SEEING IS SOMETHING WE
SHOULD WELCOME.
AN ALTERNATIVE MEANS ACTUALLY
SOLVING IDEAS NOT JUST SAY
NOTHING TO EVERYTHING.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR RUDALEVIGE,
LET'S TALK ABOUT THINGS THAT
REQUIRE MAYBE A LITTLE BIT OF
LEGISLATIVE ACTION.
UNIVERSAL PRE-K, AN EDUCATION
REQUIREMENT CHANGE.
IS THERE ANY ROOM FOR THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS TO ACTUALLY GET
ACTION IN THE MIDTERM ELECTION
HERE?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE --
CAN BE ACTION ON THINGS THAT
BOTH PARTIES SEE AS MUTUALLY
BENEFICIAL IN THEIR OWN
POLITICAL INTERESTS.
AS WE MOVE TOWARDS THE MIDTERM,
THE PARTIES OBVIOUSLY NEED TO
BURNISH THEIR BRAND.
THE DEMOCRATS WANT TO BOOST
TURNOUT IN THE MIDTERM AMONG
THEIR OWN CONSTITUENCIES,
CONSTITUENCIES THAT TEND TO BE
UNDERREPRESENTED IN MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
THAT ELECTORATE TENDS TO BE
OLDER, WHITER, WEALTHIER.
THESE ARE DEMOGRAPHICS THAT HAVE
MOVED MORE TOWARDS THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND, OF COURSE,
FROM THE REPUBLICAN POINT OF
VIEW THEY DON'T WANT TO DO
ANYTHING TO DISSUADE THAT BASE
FROM COMING OUT.
SO WHERE YOU CAN SEE ACTION, I
THINK, ARE ON THINGS LIKE
IMMIGRATION REFORM WHERE THERE
IS A CLEAR POLITICAL INTEREST
FROM BOTH PARTIES MOVING
FORWARD.
I THINK SOMETHING LIKE PRE-K,
EDUCATION GENERALLY, REBER
THE NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT IS
SOMETHING LIKE SEVEN YEARS
OVERDUE FOR REAUTHORIZATION.
THERE ARE ISSUES HANGING OUT
THERE WHERE BOTH PARTIES COULD
SEE IN THE THEIR INTEREST TO
FORWARD AND THAT I THINK
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL IF THEY
COULD DO THAT.
THE.
>> Ifill: LOW-HANGING FRUIT
THAT'S OUT THERE.
BUT ARE THERE POLITICAL
INCENTIVES OR DISINCENTIVES FOR
EITHER POLITICAL PARTY TO ACT OR
NOT TO ACT?
MICHAEL?
>> WELL, SOME IS A
LONG-TERM/SHORT-TERM SITUATION.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY CAN'T WIN
NATIONAL ELECTIONS WITH 27% OF
THE HISPANIC VOTE, FOR EXAMPLE.
THAT'S WHAT MITT ROMNEY GOT IN
THE LAST ELECTION, IT WAS
DISASTROUS.
IT'S NOT CONSISTENT BUT A LOT OF
MEMBERS THAT I TALK TO BELIEVE
THAT THE PRESIDENT'S BEEN BADLY
HURT BY OBAMACARE, THEY DON'T
WANT TO GIVE HIM VICTORIES OR
COVER IN THE CONTEXT OF A
MIDTERM ELECTION.
I THINK THAT'S A GENERAL BELIEF.
IF JOHN BOEHNER WERE TO MOVE
FORWARD ON A COMPREHENSIVE
REFORM AND IMMIGRATION IT WOULD
DEEPEDLY DIVIDE HIS OWN CAUCUS
RIGHT NOW LEADING TO A MIDTERM
ELECTION.
SO I THINK HE'S SEEING HOW
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO REACT RIGHT
NOW AND JUDGING IN THIS
CIRCUMSTANCE THAT I THINK
CONSERVATIVES ARE LIKELY TO
REACT VERY BADLY AND HE HAS A
SITUATION WHERE A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF HIS CAUCUS DOESN'T
FOLLOW HIM.
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE THE REALISTIC
POLITICAL EXPECTATIONS?
>> WELL, I THINK ANOTHER BIG
ISSUE IS REALLY THE REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY SEASON AND WHETHER WE'LL
HAVE ACTION AFTER THE PRIMARIES
ON SOMETHING LIKE IMMIGRATION
REFORM WHEN REPUBLICAN HOUSE
MEMBERS FEEL LESS OF A THREAT.
WHEN THEY'RE IN A SAFE DISTRICT,
THEY DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
THAT REPUBLICAN CHALLENGER FROM
THE RIGHT HITTING THEM ON AN
IMMIGRATION BILL.
AND I THINK THERE WILL BE A
WINDOW PAST THIS PRIMARY SEASON
BUT NOT IN THE HEAT OF THE
ELECTIONS WHERE WE COULD SEE
SOME ACTION.
>> Ifill: ALREADY, NEERA TANDEN,
THE CENTER FOR AMERICAN
PROGRESS; MICHAEL GERSON OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST"; ANDREW
RUDALEVIGE AT BODEN COLLEGE,
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY PREPARES FOR
HIS VISIT TO GERMANY TOMORROW,
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
TAKES ANOTHER LOOK AT THE
COUNTRY'S OUTRAGE OVER U.S.
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
TONIGHT, SHE TALKS TO A RISING
STAR IN GERMAN POLITICS WHO
TELLS HER THAT MANY IN HIS
COUNTRY ARE DISAPPOINTED WITH
THE AMERICAN PRESIDENT WHO AT
ONE TIME SPURRED SO MUCH HOPE.
>> Warner: GERMAN CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL CRITICIZED
WASHINGTON FOR ITS SURVEILLANCE
OF GERMAN CITIZENS-- INCLUDING
HERSELF.
>> ( translated ): THE PROGRAM
WITH EVERYTHING THAT IS
TECHNICALLY POSSIBLE HAS BEEN
DONE HAS HARMED US.
IN THE END THERE WILL BE MORE
NOT LESS SECURITY.
>> Warner: THOUGH THEIR CENTER
RIGHT PARTY HAS LONG STOOD BY
THE U.S./GERMAN ALLIANCE, HE'S
BEEN A BLUNT CRITIC OF N.S.A.
SURVEILLANCE AND IS NOW THE
POINT MAN DEALING WITH
WASHINGTON ON TOUGH ISSUES
FACING THE TWO ALLIES.
WE SPOKE THIS MORNING IN THE
PARLIAMENTARY OFFICE BUILDING IN
BERLIN.
PHILIPP MISSFELDER, THANK YOU
FOR HAVING US, CONGRATULATIONS
ON YOUR NEW JOB.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Warner: IN YOUR SPEECH
YESTERDAY CHANCELLOR MERKEL SAID
NOT ONLY WAS SPYING IN GERMANY
UNDERMINING TRUST BETWEEN OUR
COUNTRIES BUT THAT IT WOULD
UNDERMINE SECURITY.
DOES THAT UNDERMINE THE KIND OF
COOPERATION AGAINST GLOBAL
THREATS, SAY TERRORISM.
IS GERMANY COOPERATING LESS WE
THE UNITED STATES NOW AS A
RESULT OF THIS.
>> WE DEPEND ON THE SECURITY AND
HOW WE CAN GREAT THE UNITED
STATES, THE UNITED STATES WILL
REMAIN AS OUR BEST FRIEND IN THE
WORLD AND OUR BEST ALLY AND THIS
IS THE REASON WE HAD NO
TERRORIST ATTACK IN THE GERMANY
WAS ALSO THE HELP BY THE
AMERICANS BUT THIS IS THE KIND
OF DOUBLE STANDARD WE HAVE IN
THIS DEBATE THAT ON THE ONE HAND
SIDE WE WISH TO HAVE SUPPORT OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ON
THE OTHER SIDE WE'RE IN A
COMPLETE OTHER CULTURE ABOUT
DATA.
>> Ifill:.
>> Warner: EXPLAIN WHY THIS HAS
STRUCK SUCH A NERVE HERE IN
GERMANY.
>> MOST PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY
THE HISTORY IN MIND OF THE
SYSTEM IN GERMANY AND ALSO MUCH
OLDER PEOPLE REMEMBER HOW THE
NAZI PARTY CONTROLLED
EVERYTHING.
THIS IS SOMETHING IN WHICH HAS A
BIG IMPACT IN EVERY DEBATE WHEN
IT COMES TO
>> Warner: HOW DO YOU RESOLVE
THAT?
>> THERE IS NO SOLUTION FOR THIS
DEBATE BECAUSE AT ONE POINT
TOWARDS PRESIDENT OBAMA HIMSELF
WERE SO BIG THE PEOPLE BELIEVED
THAT HE WAS COMING TO GERMANY
AND RESTORING THE DISTRUST THAT
WAS DAMAGED BY THE LEGACY OF
PRESIDENT BUSH AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE DISAPPOINTED THAT
HE'S NOT STOPPING WITH THE
N.S.A., THAT HE'S CONTINUING THE
PROGRAM.
>> Warner: SO REAL
DISAPPOINTMENT IN PRESIDENT
OBAMA HIMSELF AS A PERSON HERE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IF DICK CHENEY WOULD BE IN
CHARGE OF ALL THESE PROGRAMS
PEOPLE WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE WHAT THE
PEOPLE HAVE EXPECTED DURING THE
BUSH ERA BUT THIS IS OPPOSITE OF
OBAMA.
OBAMA WAS SEEN AS THE ONE WHO
TAKES CARE OF THE EUROPEANS OR
RESPONDS TO THE PROBLEMS PEOPLE
PRESENT HIM IN 2008 IN BERLIN
AND THEY'RE REALLY DISAPPOINTED
BY HIM.
>> Warner: U.S. INTELLIGENCE
OFFICIALS SAY THAT IN FACT
GERMANY IS A APPROPRIATE TARGET
FOR FAIRLY WIDESPREAD
SURVEILLANCE.
THAT YOU'RE A A CROSS ROADS HERE
IN EUROPE, SOME OF THE 9/11
HIJACKERS PLOTTED THIS ATTACK IN
THE SO-CALLED HAMBURG SELL HERE.
ARE THEY RIGHT ABOUT THAT?
>> GERMANY IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
COUNTRY IN EUROPE AND WE BECAME
IMPORTANT FOR MANY PEOPLE WITH
THE MANY IMMIGRANTS WHO CAME TO
US.
MANY RUSSIANS ARE HERE AND MANY
PEOPLE FROM THE MIDDLE EAST AND
THIS IS SOMETHING WHICH MAKES
GERMANY VERY INTERESTING ALSO
FOR SPYING AND I WOULD AGREE
THAT FOR ANYBODY WHO IS
INTERESTED IN INFORMATION THAT
THIS IS ONE OF THE HOT SPOTS.
>> AND SO WHAT WOULD BE THE
APPROPRIATE LEVEL OR THE
APPROPRIATE APPROACH IN YOUR
VIEW FOR U.S. INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY TO TAKE TOWARD GERMANY
>> FROM OUR POINT OF VIEW THERE
IS NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
CELL PHONE OF OUR CHANCELLOR AND
THE CELL PHONE OF THE PERSON
WORKING IN THE RETAIL SHOP, FOR
EXAMPLE.
IT IS COMPLETELY DIFFERENT WHEN
IT COMES TO PEOPLE WHO ARE KNOWN
BY OUR SECURITY INTELLIGENCE,
WHO ARE KNOWN BY THE AMERICAN
AUTHORITIES COMING HERE, HIDING
HERE IN GERMANY, FOR EXAMPLE.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE SHOULD
SPECIFY AND WHERE WE SHOULD
COOPERATE WHEN IT COMES TO
FIGHTING INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM.
>> THE GERMAN MAGAZINE "DER
SPIEGEL" REVEALED BASED ON THE
SNOWDEN PAPERS THAT RIGHT ON TOP
OF THE NEW U.S. EMBASSY RIGHT
NEXT TO THE BRANDENBERG BASE IS
ONE OF THESE SUPERSECRET
INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION HUBS AND
IN FACT, IT'S USED TO SPY ON ALL
THESE GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
WHAT DID YOU THINK WHEN YOU
LEARNED THAT?
>> I WAS REALLY SHOCKED BECAUSE
IF YOU FIND OUT THESE KIND OF
DETAILS, EVERYBODY IS SHOCKED
BECAUSE THEN YOU KNOW WHO IT WAS
WHEN IT WAS, WHERE IT WAS.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING COMPLETELY
ANGERING.
>>.
>> Warner: HAS ANGELA MERKEL'S
GOVERNMENT RECEIVED ANY
SATISFACTION FROM THE AMERICANS
ON OTHER THESE ISSUES OTHER THAN
NOT SPYING ON HER CELL OWN?
>> HONESTLY SO FAR NOT.
WE HAVEN'T HAD THE PROGRESS WE
NEED AND WE HOPE WE ARE ABLE TO
MANAGE IT UNTIL THE CHANCELLOR
HAS HER VISITS IN JUNE IN
AMERICA.
WE SHOULD CONTINUE OUR
COOPERATION BECAUSE THERE ARE
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT THINGS THE.
I HOPE THAT WE CAN FOCUS ON THE
MORE IMPORTANT ISSUES AMONG ALL
THESE PROBLEMS THEN ABOUT ONE.
>> Warner: SPEAKING OF
MR. SNOEBD, THERE'S SOMETHING OF
A BOOM HERE TO GRANT HIM ASYLUM.
CAN YOU IMAGINE THAT HAPPENING
IN GERMANY?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
IF HE WOULD BE INVITED TO
GERMANY WE WOULD DELIVER HIM TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BECAUSE WE HAVE AN AGREEMENT
WITH AMERICA AND WE STILL
BELIEVE IN THIS AGREEMENT AND
THAT MEANS THAT WE TRUST EACH
OTHER.
I TRUST ALSO THE LEGAL SYSTEM IN
AMERICA THAT THEY WOULD TAKE
CARE OF HIM.
>> Warner: SO WHAT WOULD THE
CHANCELLOR SAY TO SECRETARY
KERRY ON THIS N.S.A.
SURVEILLANCE QUESTION WHEN HE
VISITS TOMORROW?
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY KIND OF
LEVERAGE TO FRIGHTEN AMERICA.
THE ONLY ARGUMENT WE HAVE  OUR
WORD WHEN WE SAY OUR PEOPLE ARE
UNHAPPY AND I THINK THE AMERICAN
LEADERSHIP NEEDS THE GERMAN
POPULATION WHICH IS ON THEIR
SIGN, ON THE RIGHT MORAL SIDE.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING WHERE
AMERICA WAS ALWAYS ON THE MORAL
HIGH GROUND.
>>.
>> Warner: PHILIPP.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: SCIENTISTS ARE
SEARCHING FOR CLUES TO WHAT'S
BEEN KILLING STARFISH UP AND
DOWN THE WEST COAST.
THE MYSTERIOUS DIE-OFFS WERE
FIRST NOTICED IN WASHINGTON
STATE.
THAT'S WHERE K.C.T.S SEATTLE HAS
BEEN PARTNERING WITH THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC MEDIA
PROJECT EARTHFIX TO GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF THE EPIDEMIC.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATIE
CAMPBELL REPORTS.
>> Reporter: SOMETHING STRANGE
IS HAPPENING IN SEATTLE'S
WATERS.
LAURA JAMES WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
TO NOTICE.
SHE ALERTED SCIENTISTS WHEN
STARFISH BEGAN WASHING UP ON THE
SHORES NEAR HER HOME.>> I THOUG?
THIS IS GETTING A LITTLE TOO
CLOSE FOR COMFORT, I NEED GO SEE
WHAT'S GOING ON AND I NEED
DOCUMENT IT.
>> Reporter: AS A DIVER AND
UNDERWATER VIDEOGRAPHER, JAMES
WAS EQUIPPED TO DO SOMETHING.
SHE DECIDED TO TAKE HER CAMERA
TO A SPOT POPULAR AMONG BOTH
DIVERS AND STARFISH.
THESE PILINGS ARE USUALLY
COVERED WITH A RAINBOW OF
STARFISH.
ON A RECENT DAVE, JAMES
DISCOVERED A SCENE FROM A HORROR
FILM.
>> THERE WERE BODIES EVERYWHERE
AND THEY WERE JUST -- TO ME IT
WAS LIKE SOMEONE HAD TAKE AN
LASER GUN AND JUST ZAPPED THEM
AND THEY VAPORIZED.
>> Reporter: STARFISH, ALSO
KNOWN AS SEA STARS, ARE WASTING
AWAY BY THE TENS OF THOUSANDS.
NOT JUST IN PUGET SOUND BUT UP
AND DOWN NORTH AMERICA'S PACIFIC
COAST.
AND NOBODY KNOWS WHY.
>> I'VE BEEN DIVING OUT HERE FOR
24 YEARS AND PEOPLE ASK ME "DO
YOU SEE ANY BIG DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN NOW AND WHEN YOU
STARTED?"
AND I'VE SEEN SOME SUBTLE
DIFFERENCES BUT THIS IS THE
CHANGE OF MY LIFETIME WE'VE HAD
SMALL OCCASIONAL DIEOFFS HERE
AND THERE BUT IT'S NOT LIKE
THIS.
IT'S NOT A MASS MORTALITY EVENT.
I'M JUST A DIVER.
I NEED TO FIND OUT WHAT THE
SCIENTISTS KNOW.
I TISHGS SCIENTISTS HAVE ALSO
BEEN WONDERING WHAT'S GOING ON.
THEY FIRST STARTED NOTING SICK
AND DYING STARFISH ON
WASHINGTON'S OLYMPIC PENINSULA
LAST SUMMER.
REPORTS HAVE SINCE SURFACED FROM
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA TO AS FAR
NORTH AS ALASKA.
AT FIRST ONLY A CERTAIN SPECIES
KNOWN AS THE SUNFLOWER STAR
SEEMED TO BE AFFECTED.
THEN IT HIT ANOTHER SPECIES,
THEN ANOTHER.
IN ALL, ABOUT A DOZEN SPECIES OF
SEA STARS ARE DYING ALONG THE
WEST COAST.
IT'S BEEN COINED "SEA STAR
WASTING SYNDROME" AND IT'S ALSO
BEEN REPORTED AT SITES ALONG THE
EAST COAST.
BUT RESEARCHERS SAY IT'S TOO
EARLY TO CONNECT THESE
OUTBREAKS.
>> YOU KNOW, I WAS SURPRISED,
TOO, THAT THE CRABS WEREN'T JUST
--
>> Reporter: THIS MAN IS A
BIOLOGY PROFESSOR AT WESTERN
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
HE STUDIES HOW ENVIRONMENTAL
CHANGES AFFECT MARINE LIFE.
TODAY HIS TEAM IS COLLECTING SEA
STARS IN WASHINGTON JUST NORTH
OF SEATTLE.
>> THE POPULATION OF SEA STARS
IS -- THEY ARE QUITE ABUNDANT ON
THAT SITE SO ON THE
THERE WERE HEALTHY SEA STARS BUT
WE WERE ALSO COMING ACROSS ARMS
AND PILES OF DETERIORATED SEA
STARS AND INDIVIDUALS THAT WERE
TWISTED.
>> Reporter: THE DIVERS ARE
SEARCHING FOR STARS SHOWING
SYMPTOMS AS WELL AS THE ONES
THAT APPEAR HEALTHY.
>> THE EXPERIMENTS ARE
INFECTIOUSNESS EXPERIMENTS WHERE
WE TAKE INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE
SIGNS OF THE SYNDROME AND WE PUT
THEM IN TANKS WITH INDIVIDUALS
THAT DON'T HAVE SIGNS.
>> Reporter: THEN THEY CLOSELY
WATCH THE PROGRESS OF THE
DISEASE.
FIRST, THE STARS TWIST THEIR
ARMS INTO NOTS AND SOMETIMES
LESIONS FORM ON THEIR SKIN.
>> ONE OF THEM WAS VERY SICK AND
THE OTHER TWO INDIVIDUALS
STARTED RIPPING THEMSELVES
APART.
THE ARMS JUST CRAWL AWAY FROM
THE PARTICULAR BODY.
>> Reporter: YOU HEARD THAT
RIGHT-- THE ARMS CRAWL IN
OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS UNTIL THEY
TEAR AWAY FROM THE BODY AND
THEIR INSIDES SPILL OUT.
AND UNLIKE MOST STARFISH, THE
ARMS DON'T REGENERATE.
STARS THAT CAME IN WITH SYMPTOMS
DIED WITHIN 24 HOURS.
>> INTERESTINGLY, THOUGH, I
DIDN'T SEE THE INDIVIDUALS THAT
WERE EXPOSED TO THOSE DYING
INDIVIDUALS SHOW SYMPTOMS ANY
MORE RAPIDLY THAN INDIVIDUALS IN
THE OTHER TANKS.
>> Reporter: SO BEING IN THE
SAME TANK WITH A DYING STARFISH
DOESN'T SEEM TO ACCELERATE THE
DISEASE.
DIVERS RECENTLY RETURNED TO FIND
THAT MOST OF THE STARFISH THERE
HAVE DIED.
BUT WE STILL DON'T KNOW HOW
THEY'RE CATCHING THE ILLNESS OR
WHERE IT COMES FROM.
COULD AN INFECTIOUS PATHOGEN
FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD
HAVECHED A RIDE ON OCEAN
GOING SHIPS?
OR COULD IT BE SOMETHING LARGER
LIKE CLIMATE CHANGE OR OCEAN
ACIDIFICATION?
>> NO SIGNS OF LESIONS.
>> Reporter: DREW HARVEL IS
COORDINATING THE RESEARCH INTO
ANSWERING THESE QUESTIONS.
SHE'S A MARINE EPIDEMIOLOGIST
FROM CORNELL UNIVERSITY WHO IS
STUDYING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
WASHINGTON'S LABS.
SHE'S SENDING THESE SAMPLES TO
CORNELL.
THERE THEY WILL BE ANALYZED FOR
VIRUSES AS WELL AS BACTERIA AND
OTHER PROTOZOA.
THE FIRST STEP, SHE SAYS, IS TO
FIGURE OUT THE DISTINCT
CHARACTERISTIC THAT IDENTIFY THE
DISEASE.
>> WE KNOW ORGANISMS GET SICK,
THEY GET BACTERIA, THEY GET
VIRUSES LIKE HUMANS DO.
THEY GET THE COLD AND THE
SNIFFLES BUT IT'S HARDER TO SEE
IT HAPPENING WHEN THEYUN
THE OCEAN.
>> Reporter: SCIENTISTS WORRY
THE LOSS OF SEA STARS COULD HAVE
FAR REACHING ECOLOGICAL
CONSEQUENCES.
THAT'S BECAUSE THEY'RE VORACIOUS
PREDATORS.
THEY GOBBLE UP MUSSELS, CLAMS,
SEA CUCUMBERS AND EVEN OTHER
STARFISH.
>> BECAUSE THESE ARE
ECOLOGICALLY IMPORTANT SPECIES
AND WHEN YOU LOSE THIS MANY SEA
STARS IT WILL CERTAINLY CHANGE
THE SEA SCAPE.
>> IT CERTAINLY SUGGESTS THAT
THOSE ECOSYSTEMS ARE NOT HEALTHY
SOMETHING THAT CAN AFFECT
SPECIES THAT WIDESPREAD IS I
THINK JUST SCARY.
>> Reporter: IF THERE'S A SILVER
LINING, IT MAY BE STUDYING THIS
OUTBREAK SHOULD SHED LIGHT ON
HOW MARINE DISEASES SPREAD.
THAT'S A QUESTION LAURA JAMES IS
HOPING CITIZEN SCIENTISTS CAN
HELP ANSWER.
>> THE BIG PROBLEM WE HAD HERE
IS WE DIDN'T HAVE A BASELINE.
THE STARFISH GOT SICK WHEN WE
NOTICED.
IT WOULD BE COOL IF WE COULD
SHOW THIS IN REALTIME AND SHOW
ND THE CHANGES IN
REALTIME.
THE.
>> Reporter: JAMES AND HER DIVE
BUDDY BUILT A WEB SITE TRACKING
POSTING TO SOCIAL MEDIA SITE
WITH THE HASHTAG "SICK
STARFISH."
>> TAKE A PICTURE OF ANY
STARFISH YOU'LL FIND WHEN YOU'RE
WALKING ONHE BEACH AND HASHTAG
IT "SICK STARFISH" AND THEN THEY
CAN LOOK AT IT WHEN IT POPS UP
ON THE MAP OR IF WE'RE NOT SURE
WE CAN SEND IT TO THE SCIENTISTS
MAKE THEM TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO STOP IT,
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIX IT BUT
WE NEED TO BE AWARE SO THAT WE
CAN RECOGNIZE IT WHEN IT HAPPENS
AGAIN.
>> Reporter: ALL THIS RESEARCH
MAY BE PAYING OFF.
SCIENTISTS THINK THEY'RE HONING
IN ON A CAUSE AND HOPE TO MAKE
AN ANNOUNCEMENT IN A FEW MONTHS.
>> Ifill: NEW EXPERIMENTS
STARTED IN WASHINGTON STATE THIS
WEEK TO TEST POSSIBLE INFECTIOUS
AGENTS.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
EGYPT AND A CRACKDOWN ON THE
NEWS MEDIA.
ON WEDNESDAY, AUTHORITIES
CHARGED 20 JOURNALISTS WORKING
FOR THE AL JAZEERA SATELLITE
NEWS CHANNEL WITH BEING AGENTS
OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
THEY WERE ALSO ACCUSED OF
PLOTTING TO DEFAME THE COUNTRY
AND RUNNING A TERRORIST CELL OUT
OF AN UPSCALE CAIRO HOTEL.
OF THE GROUP, FIVE HOLD FOREIGN
CITIZENSHIP INCLUDING ACTING
BUREAU CHIEF MOHAMED FAHMY AND
ENGLISH LANGUAGE CORRESPONDENT
PETER GRESTE.
TO TELL US MORE, I'M JOINED BY
NANCY YOUSSEF, MIDDLE EAST
BUREAU CHIEF FOR McCLATCHY
NEWSPAPERS.
BACK HERE IN THE UNITED STATES
FOR A FEW WEEKS?
>> YES, THANK YOU.
>> NANCY, THANK YOU.
WHAT IS THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT
SAYING THESE JOURNALISTS DID?
>> THEY'RE ALLEGING THAT THEY
WERE WORKING OUT OF THE MARRIOTT
HOTEL AND THAT RATHER THAN THERE
TO REPORT ABOUTIVELY ABOUT EGYPT
THEY WERE PURPOSEFULLY TRYING TO
DISTORT EGYPT'S MOVE BY ONLY
PRESENTING THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD'S VIEW OF THINGS.
AND SO THE EGYPTIANS ARE SAYING
THEY'RE MEMBERS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD, NON-EGYPTIANS HAVE
COME INTO CAIRO WITH THE PURPOSE
OF TRAINING THEM ON HOW TO
DISTORT THE NEWS IN SUCH A WAY
THAT WAS FAVORABLE TOLL THE
OPPONENTS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE
EVIDENCE?
I KNOW GOVERNMENT IS SAYING THEY
ED TED AND MANIPULATED VIDEO
FOOTAGE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, AND THE
STATEMENT THEY RELEASED
YESTERDAY THEY DIDN'T OFFER TOO
MUCH DETAIL OTHER THAN TO SAY
THEY THAT THEY HAD BROUGHT AN
EXPERT WHO SAID THEIR EQUIPMENT
SHOWED THAT THEY WERE DISTORTING
VIDEO THAT THEY WERE OBTAINING,
THAT THEY WERE MANIPULATING THE
VIDEO IN SUCH A WAY THAT WAS
DESIGNED TO BE UNFAVORABLE TO
THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT.
ROUGH VOUF WHAT IS AL JAZEERA
SAYING IN ITS DEFENSE?
>> AL JAZEERA SAID A COUPLE
THINGS, NUMBER ONE THAT THESE
GUYS ARE NOT MEMBERS OF THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AND NOT SET
IN THERE TO DO ANYTHING BUT BE
JOURNALIST.
AND THEY'RE ALSO SAYING IN THE
CASE OF SOME OF THESE, THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN FORMALLY HANDED
PAPERS CHARGING THEM.
THAT THEY'VE HEARD THE CHARGES
THROUGH THIS STATEMENT BUT NOT
THROUGH THE PROSECUTORS' OFFICE
DIRECTLY.
>> IS THERE A SENSE FROM ANY
QUARTER OTHER THAN THE
GOVERNMENT THAT AL JAZEERA HAS
TAKEN SIDES?
>> WELL, THERE IS A FEELING
AMONGST EGYPTIANS THAT AL
JAZEERA IS FAVORABLE TO THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
IT'S A QATARI FUNDED NEWS
CHANNEL AND THAT THAT COUNTRY
SUPPORTED THE MORSI PRESIDENCY,
CERTAINLY MORE SO THAN OTHER
NATIONS DID.
AND SO ON THE STREETS THERE'S --
IT'S PERPETUATE WAITED BECAUSE
ON STATE NEWS MEDIA THERE'S
CONSTANT US ISS THAT AL
JAZEERA'S PLOTTING AGAINST THE
STATE, THAT THEY'RE WORKING
AGAINST THE INTEREST OF EGYPT
AND AGENTS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
>> Woodruff: SO THE GOVERNMENT
HAS BEEN GOING AROUND SAYING
THAT?
>> ON STATE MEDIA, YES.
>> Woodruff: YOU VISITED ONE OF
THE AL JAZEERA JOURNALISTS IN
HIS JAIL CELL.
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
>> WELL, MOHAMED FAHMY, I WANTED
TO SEE THE CONDITIONS HE WAS
BEING HELD IN SO WE HAD TO SNEAK
IN BECAUSE HE'S BEING HELD AT A
PRISON WHICH IS A MAXIMUM
SECURITY PRISON IN CAIRO WHERE
MUBARAK WAS HELD, THE FORMER
PRESIDENT DURING HIS DESENSE AND
SO TO SEE HIM WE HAD TO THE GO
TO THE PROSECUTORS OFFICE AND
SEE HIM IN A HOLDING CELL WHERE
HE WAS GOING TO BE QUESTIONED BY
THE PROSECUTORS' OFFICE AND THE
ONLY WAY WE WERE ABLE TO DO IT
IS GO AS EGYPTIAN THERE IS TO
BRING HIM THINGS LIKE FOOD AND
CLOTHING WHICH FAMILIES MUST
PROVIDE DETAINEES SO HE HAD HE
NOT BEEN EGYPTIAN WE WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO GET IN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WAS HE SAYING
WHEN YOU SAW HIM?
>> WHEN WE SAW HIM HE WAS
INITIALLY VERY CONFUSED AND
ALMOST SUSPICIOUS ABOUT WHY WE
WERE BEING LET IN AND ONCE HE
REALIZED WE HAD A PLATFORM HE
TRIED TO THINK OF EVERYTHING HE
WANTED TO TELL EVERYBODY.
THAT HE WAS BEING HELD IN A DARK
ROOM, THAT HE WAS BEING FORCED
TO SLEEP ON THE FLOOR.
THAT HE WAS BEING HELD AMONG THE
WORST DETAINEES INCLUDING
JIHADISTS THAT HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED IN THIS GOVERNMENT
CRACKDOWN AND THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WAS BUILDING A CASE
AGAINST HIM AND TELLING HIM
THINGS LIKE HE WAS A GOOD CATCH
AND HE WOULD NEVER SEE THE LIGHT
AGAIN.
SO HE'S TRYING TO GET OUT AS
MUCH AS HE COULD AND AT THE SAME
TIME REASSURE EVERYONE THAT HE
WAS OKAY AT THAT TIME.
>> Woodruff: THEN OF COURSE
SINCE THEN WE KNOW CHARGES HAVE
BEEN OFFICIALLY FILED IS ONLY AL
JAZEERA BEING SINGLED OUT BY THE
GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, AL JAZEERA IS REALLY
DISLIKED BY MANY, MANY
EGYPTIANS.
REMEMBER AL JAZEERA WAS KEY IN
2011 TO PEOPLE'S UNDERSTANDING
ABOUT WHAT STATE MEDIA WAS
SAYING ABOUT THE PROTEST BEING
NOT SO BIG.
AL JAZEERA WAS TALKING ABOUT
WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN PLACES
LIKE TAHRIR SQUARE AND SINCE
THEN THEY'VE HAD A GROWING
INFLUENCE ON THE COUNTRY SO
THAT'S MADE THEM REALLY DISLIKED
BY THE EGYPTIAN PUBLIC.
THAT SAID, WE'RE SEEING
CRACKDOWNS ON JOURNALISTS WRIT
LARGE.
TODAY STATE INFORMATION SERVICE
HAD TO PUT OUT A DIRECTIVE ABOUT
WHETHER INTERVIEWING A MEMBER OF
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD OR GIVING
THEIR POINT OF VIEW CONSTITUTED
A THREAT OF THE STATE AND WE SAW
TODAY AND A NUMBER OF MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD MEMBERS ARRESTED FOR
PUTTING OUT TWEETS AND FACEBOOK
MESSAGES THAT WERE SEEN AS
INCITING VIOLENCE.
SO WHILE AL JAZEERA HAS BEEN
TARGETED, IT SEEMS THAT THE NET
IS BEING CAST WIDER AND WIDER.
>> Woodruff: THE CRACKDOWN SEEMS
TO BE WIDER.
ONE OF THE THINGS I WANT TO ASK
YOU ABOUT, NANCY YOUSSEF, IT'S
BECOMING INCREASINGLY APPARENT
THAT THE MILITARY LEADER-- HE'S
NOW CALLING HIM FIELD MARSHAL,
AL-SISI, WHAT'S THE REACTION
AGAIN?
>> LARGELY POSITIVE BECAUSE HE'S
SEEN AS THE SAVIOR OF EGYPT.
HE WAS THE ONE WHO ANNOUNCED
MORSI'S OUSTER.
THE FACT THAT HE WAS PROMOTED TO
GENERAL JUST A FEW DAYS AGO
SUGGESTS THAT THE MILITARY IN A
WAY ENDORSES HIS POTENTIAL
PRESIDENCY.
AND THAT HE IS THE ONLY PERSON
WITH THE BACKGROUND AND CAPE
POSSIBILITY SAVE EGYPT AND PUT
IT BACK ON THE RIGHT TRACK.
YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT HIS PICTURE
ISN'T EATING ANYWHERE.
HIS PICTURE IS ON CANDIES AND
T-SHIRTS AND ON THE THIRD
ANNIVERSARY OF THE UPRISING IN
TAHRIR YOU COULDN'T WALK A FEW
FEET WITHOUT SEEING PICTURES,
POSTERS, CUTOUTS OF HIS FACE.
HE HAS BEEN RALDED AS A SINGLE
GREATEST POSSIBLE PERSON TO COME
IN AND SALVAGE NOT ONLY EGYPT
BUT FOR SOME THE HOPES OF THE
REVOLUTION.
AND SO MANY PEOPLE SAY ABOUT IT
BUT QUIETER SOME PEOPLE ARE
SAYING THIS THREATENS THE
RESOLUTION AND MARKS A
REGRESSION FROM WHAT PEOPLE
HOPED WOULD COME THREE YEARS
AGO.
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY, IF THERE
WERE ELECTIONS, WHEN WOULD THEY
BE B?
>> UNDER THE CONSTITUTION THAT
WAS RATIFIED ON JULY 15, IS
ELECTIONS HAVE TO HAPPEN WITHIN
90 DAYS OF THAT SO ASSUMING THEY
STICK TO THAT, WE HOPE TO KNOW
SOMETHING BY APRIL.
>> Woodruff: NANCY YOUSSEF WITH
McCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR REPORTING.
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN NEARLY THREE
WEEKS SINCE NEWS FIRST BROKE OF
A CHEMICAL SPILL NEAR
CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA.
SINCE THEN, THERE HAVE BEEN NEW
DETAILS ALMOST DAILY ABOUT THE
SIZE OF THE SPILL, WHAT WAS
LEAKED, THE RISK THE ACCIDENT
STILL POSES TO THE SURROUNDING
COMMUNITY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR UPDATE.
>> I JUST WANT TO KNOW, WHO DO
YOU TRUST?
>> Brown: THAT WAS A DOMINANT
QUESTION AT WEDNESDAY'S TOWN
HALL MEETING IN CHARLESTON, WEST
VIRGINIA.
OFFICIALS SAY A CHEMICAL SPILL
THAT FOULED THE ELK RIVER HAS
DISSIPATED AND THEY'VE RESCINDED
THE "DO-NOT-USE" ORDERS FOR SOME
300,000 PEOPLE.
BUT THREE WEEKS LATER, SHAMAYA
LEWIS AND OTHERS ARE STILL
ANXIOUS.
>> WHO DO I TRUST?
DO I TRUST THE WATER QUALITY
SPECIALIST THAT'S BEEN TOLD TO
CALL ME AND I'VE BEEN
CONTINUALLY FOLLOWING UP ON-- I
SPOKE TO HIM AGAIN YESTERDAY--
OR DO I TRUST YOU ALL TO GO
AHEAD AND LET MY CHILDREN, YOU
KNOW, BATHE AND STUFF IN THE
WATER?
I'M EXTREMELY FRUSTRATED.
>> Brown: TESTIMONY AT A STATE
LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE HEARING
ALSO YESTERDAY DID NOTHING TO
EASE THE FRUSTRATION.
>> THE BIGGEST PROBLEM IS-- AND
MY BIGGEST CONCERN IS-- WE STILL
DON'T HAVE A GOOD HANDLE ON WHAT
IT IS WE'RE BEING EXPOSED TO OR
AT WHAT CONCENTRATIONS.
>> Brown: SCOTT SIMONTON CO-
CHAIRS THE STATE ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY BOARD.
HE SAID TRACES OF FORMALDEHYDE,
A KNOWN CARCINOGEN, SHOWED UP IN
WATER SAMPLES FROM A RESTAURANT.
>> I CAN GUARANTEE YOU THAT,
THAT THE CITIZENS OF THIS VALLEY
ARE AT LEAST IN SOME INSTANCES
BREATHING FORMALDEHYDE.
THEY'RE TAKING A HOT SHOWER,
THIS STUFF IS BREAKING DOWN INTO
FORMALDEHYDE IN THE SHOWER OR IN
THE WATER SYSTEM, AND 'R
INHALING IT.
>> Brown: SIMONTON SAID IT COULD
BE COMING FROM THE SPILLED
CHEMICAL M.C.H.M USED IN COAL
PROCESSING.
HIS TESTING WAS FUNDED BY A LAW
FIRM REPRESENTING BUSINESSES
SUING OVER THE ACCIDENT.
THE STATE PUBLIC HEALTH
COMMISSIONER QUICKLY DENOUNCED
THE CLAIM AS "TOTALLY
UNFOUNDED."
SHE ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING:
BACK AT THE TOWN HALL, THE LOCAL
HEALTH OFFICER SAID WHATEVER THE
CAUSE, HE IS SEEING EFFECTS.
>> PEOPLE AT THE SAME TIME I'M
SEEING ARE HAVING A LOT OF
ISSUES WITH SMELL.
I'M SEEING RASHES, I'M SEEING
DIARRHEA, NAUSEA, VOMITING,
ASTHMA TRIGGERS, MIGRAINES, YOU
NAME IT.
>> Brown: IF THAT WEREN'T
ENOUGH, CHEMICAL PLANT OWNER
FREEDOM INDUSTRIES DISCLOSED
LAST WEEK THAT ANOTHER COAL
PROCESSING AGENT, P.P.H, WAS
ALSO IN THE TANK THAT LEAKED.
BUT OFFICIALS SAY THE LIMITED
AMOUNT AND TOXICITY DO NOT POSE
ADDITIONAL HEALTH CONCERNS.
THE ACCIDENT IS DRAWING MORE
ATTENTION FROM CONGRESS AS WELL.
NEXT TUESDAY, A SENATE
SUBCOMMITTEE WILL HOLD A HEARING
TO LEARN MORE FROM STATE
OFFICIALS AND TO EXAMINE THE
SAFETY AND SECURITY OF DRINKING
WATER SUPPLIES.
ASHTON MARRA IS COVERING THE
STORY FOR WEST VIRGINIA PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
SO LET'S PICK UP FIRST ON THIS
NEW CHEMICAL FOUND IN THE
SPILLAGE P.P.H..
THERE'S A DEBATE OVER WHETHER IT
MIGHT BE HARMFUL OR WHETHER
THERE'S ENOUGH OF IT TO BE
HARMFUL.
WHAT'S THE LATEST?
>> WE WHAT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT THE
SECOND CHEMICAL IS THE SAME
THING WE HEARD DURING THE
INITIAL WEEK: THAT THEY DON'T
KNOW ENOUGH ABOUT THIS CHEM DOOL
KNOW WHAT IT WILL DO TO THE
HUMAN BODY.
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN TOLD IS THAT
IT WAS IN SUCH A SMALL AMOUNT
WITHIN THAT TANK THAT EVEN IF
THE CHEMICAL LEAKED AND DID MAKE
IT TO THE RIVER ITSELF THAT THAT
CHEMICAL SHOULDN'T BE HARMFUL TO
THE PUBLIC SO FAR THE NATIONAL
GUARD TESTING THROUGHOUT THE
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM HAS SAID
THEY HAVE NON-DETECT LEVELS OF
P.P.H. NOT MEANING THERE'S NO
P.P.H. IN THE SYSTEM BUT AT THE
LEVEL THEY'RE TESTING FOR IT AT
IT HASN'T BEEN SHOWING UP.
BUT AS TO WHAT THE HEALTH
EFFECTS ARE OF THIS CHEMICAL,
WHAT IT COULD DO, WE DON'T KNOW
ANY OF THAT YET.
>> Brown: THERE'S BEEN DRAMATIC
TESTING ABOUT FORMALDEHYDE, THAT
CLEARLY UPSET OFFICIALS THERE.
TELL US ABOUT THE BACKGROUND
THERE.
>> SO AFTER THE COMMISSION
MEETING YESTERDAY WHERE THIS
INFORMATION CAME OUTSY SPOKE
WITH OUR SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
WHO IS THE CHAIR OF THAT
COMMISSION AND HE CALLED IT
"DISTURBING AND SHOCKING."
THOSE WERE THE TWO WORDS HE USED
TO DESCRIBE THE INFORMATION THAT
CAME OUT.
HE'S BASICALLY SAYING IF THERE
IS SOMETHING PUBLIC OFFICIALS
KNOW THAT THEY AREN'T TELLING
THE PUBLIC WE ARE PUTTING OUR
HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THEIR HANDS
AND THEY SHOULD BE RELEASING
THAT INFORMATION AS SOON AS THEY
KNOW ABOUT IT.
THE ENTIRE COMMISSION WAS A
LITTLE PUT BACK.
WE DO HAVE ONE SENATOR WHOSE
WIFE IS PREGNANT AND HAS A
THREE-YEAR-OLD CHILD AND HAS
BEEN SAYING OVER AND OVER AGAIN
"I WANT ANSWERS AND I WANT
CONSTITUENTS."
>> SO HOW IS THE PUBLIC REACTING
TO ALL THIS?
FOR THE ONE THING, ARE THEY
DRINKING THE WATER?
ARE PEOPLE BATHING?
WHAT ARE THEY DOING NOW?
>> I THINK WE SAW FROM THE PIECE
THAT DURING THE TOWN HALL
MEETING LAST NIGHT PEOPLE WERE
STILL ANGRY AND STILL
DISTRUSTFUL OF THE SYSTEM ITSELF
AND OF THE OFFICIALS THAT
TELLING THEM THAT IT'S SAFE.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU PERSONALLY
FROM MY EXPERIENCED REPORTING AT
THE STATEHOUSE, FROM MY PERSONAL
INTERACTION WITH COLLEAGUES AND
FRIENDS I DIDN'T THINK OF A
SINGLE PERSON THAT'S SAYING "I'M
DRINKING THE WATER, IT'S FINE,
I'VE BEEN DRINKING TAP WATER ALL
ALONG."
IT'S BEEN THREE WEEKS NOW AND I
DON'T KNOW OF ANYONE.
PEOPLE ARE FEELING SAFE ENOUGH
TO BATHE AND DO DISHES AND TO
WASH THEIR CLOTHES BUT NOBODY
THAT I'VE HEARD OF YET FEELS
SAFE ENOUGH TO DRINK IT.
>> Brown: AND THOSE IN THE URBAN
AREAS AND BEYOND INTO RURAL
AREAS, IS THERE A CLEAN WATER
SUPPLY AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE OR DO
THEY HAVE TO BUY IT THEMSELVES?
>> I THINK RIGHT NOW WHAT'S
DISTURBING IS THAT THOSE
EMERGENCY DISTRIBUTION SITES
HAVE ALL BEEN CLOSED.
WE HEARD AT THE TOWN HALL
MEETING LAST NIGHT A WOMAN FROM
A RURAL PART OF THE DISTRIBUTION
AREA SAYING "I WORK FROM
PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK, I LIVE OFF
OF MINIMUM WAGE AND I CAN'T
AFFORD TO CONTINUALLY GO OUT AND
BUY WATER TO PROVIDE FOR MY
FAMILY YET THESE DISTRIBUTION
SITES HAVE BEEN CLOSED.
NO ONE AT THAT MEETING WAS ABLE
TO STEP UP AND SAY "THIS IS THE
TIME FRAME, WE'LL GET THIS
STARTED AGAIN."
THE SUPPLY SEEMS TO HAVE STOPPED
COMING INTO THE AREA BUT
CHARLESTON'S MAYOR DANNY JONES
SAID IF THERE'S ENOUGH CALLS
FROM THE PUBLIC, IF YOU WANT IT
WE'LL FIND A WAY TO START GIVING
YOU THE WATER -- START GIVING
WATER OUT AGAIN.
THERE'S BEEN NO WORD TODAY AS OF
WHEN THOSE DISTRIBUTION SITES OR
EVEN IF THOSE DISTRIBUTION SITES
WILL REOPEN.
>> Brown: ASHTON, FINALLY, GOING
BACK TO THE ORIGINAL SPILL, WHAT
KIND OF LEGISLATIVE RESPONSE HAS
THERE BEEN?
AND I WONDER GIVEN THE POLITICS
OF YOUR STATE DOES IT CHANGE
ANYTHING VIS-A-VIS THE COAL OR
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES?
>> SOR  IN A
LEGISLATIVE SESSION RIGHT NOW
WHICH ONLY HAPPENS ONCE A YEAR
FOR US AND OUR SENATE HAS PASSED
A BILL THAT BASICALLY HAS THREE
PARTS.
IT REQUIRES THE SITE OWNERS TO
IDENTIFY AND LOCATE WHERE ALL OF
THESE TEAM CAMS ARE BEING
STORED.
THE D.E.P. MUST INSPECT THOSE
SITES ANNUALLY AND MAKE SURE
THEY'RE UP TO THE STANDARDS OF
THE BILL AND SITE OWNERS -- I'M
SORRY, WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
OWNERS MUST YES QLAT ARE CALLED
SOURCE WATER PROTECTION PLANS
SAYING THAT THEY CAN DEAL WITH
THE CONTAMINATE AND PROVIDE THE
SECONDARY SOURCE OF WATER FOR
THEIR CUSTOMERS.
AS FAR AS CHANGES TO THE COAL
INDUSTRY, THIS CHEMICAL WAS HELD
AT A CHEM KOHL STORAGE SITE.
IT'S NOT PART OF THE COAL
INDUSTRY TO I DON'T THINK IT
CHANGES THAT RELATIONSHIP AS
MUCH AS IT MAKES LAWMAKERS TAKE
A SECOND LOOK AT THE CHEMICAL
INDUSTRY, ESPECIALLY SINCE IT'S
SO HIGHLY POPULATED HERE.
>> Brown: ASHTON MARA, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
HOUSE REPUBLICANS AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA CHALLENGED EACH OTHER TO
ACT ON MAJOR ISSUES.
G.O.P LEADERS CIRCULATED
PRINCIPLES FOR IMMIGRATION
REFORM, WHILE THE PRESIDENT
CALLED FOR IMPROVED JOB
TRAINING.
THE ECONOMY TURNED IN SOLID
GROWTH AT THE END OF 2013 THANKS
TO THE STRONGEST CONSUMER
SPENDING IN THREE YEARS AND
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS IN BOSTON
SERVED NOTICE THEY'LL SEEK THE
DEATH PENALTY FOR THE MAN
ACCUSED IN THE BOSTON MARATHON
BOMBING.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, READ ABOUT A GROUP IN
CALIFORNIA DEDICATED TO BRINGING
NUTRITIOUS MEALS TO SCHOOLS IN
INS.
THAT'S THE LATEST DISPATCH IN
OUR SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP
SERIES.
AND WE'RE LOOKING FOR YOUR
INPUT: KNOW OF AN ORGANIZATION
WHOSE MISSION IS TO HELP
CHILDREN?
TWEET US YOUR RECOMMENDATIONS AT
@NEWSHOURWORLD.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT WE ADD THEM
AS THEIR DEATHS ARE MADE
OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS BECOME
AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE SEVEN
MORE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, AS BEN BERNANKE EXITS
THE FEDERAL RESERVE WE EXAMINE
HIS ECONOMIC LEGACY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.